This United States Wildfires Map was created in order to simplify the spread of information regarding wildfires across the United States. The data used can be used to provide not only a better understanding of burn patterns but a better understanding for the need of prescribed fires in order to prevent large wildfire events that can cause the loss of life and millions of dollars in damage to infrastructure and private property. The data includes information regarding acres burned as a way to better communicate with the public the difference in sizes of controlled burns and wildfires. Not only is the size of the burn different, but in many cases the length of the burn and manpower required to control the burn is incredibly different. This web map can also be used by the general public to further familiarize themselves with the increasingly important role that wildfires have with the environment and environmental cycles.

The project takes inspiration from multiple articles and news reals regarding the multiple recent large wildfires across the western portion of the United States however takes inspiration of a New York Times Article titled “Hundreds Are Forced to Evacuate from Western Arizona Wildfire” by Heather Murphy – April 26th, 2021.

Data regarding wildfires was provided by ESRI’s ArcGIS Hub, and the base map was provided by Mapnik.

Murphy, H. (2021, April 26). Hundreds Are forced to Evacuate from Western Arizona Wildfire. New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/26/us/kingman-wildfire-pine-lake-arizona.html?searchResultPosition=3
